[Music]
we've been focusing on trying to find
life on mars so much
while there is this gem waiting to be
explored
this planet is the sixth farthest from
the sun and the second largest in the
solar system
you'll find it right behind jupiter i'm
talking about saturn
or as they sometimes call it the jewel
of the solar system
it's so different from our planet first
of all you wouldn't be able to stand
there
while earth consists of rock and other
tough stuff this planet is like a giant
ball mostly made of gases
if you found a swimming pool huge enough
to fit saturn
you could see the planet floating in the
water no wonder
saturn is the least dense planet in the
solar system
it also contains a lot of helium you
know the gas you put in balloons to make
them hover in the air
saturn is a very windy planet winds
there are more than four times stronger
than the ones we have on earth
a day over there lasts 10 hours and 14
minutes because saturn spins on its axis
pretty fast
but the planet takes its time while
going around the sun
a year there equals 29 earth years
saturn's radius is more than 36 000
miles
it means the gas giant is nine times
wider than our planet
if earth was the size of a nickel saturn
would be as big as a volleyball
even though some of our planets in our
solar system also have rings
saturns are the most spectacular ones
you can even see its rings from earth
and no you don't have to be a scientist
with insanely expensive equipment
all you need is a small telescope
saturn's rings are not firm
they are made of pieces of dust rock and
ice
some of them are as small as grains of
sand and some as big as a house or even
a mountain
these are actually bits of asteroids
comets and shattered moons that fell
apart before reaching saturn
they could be torn into pieces by the
planet's powerful gravitational pull
saturn has over 50 moons and recently
scientists have discovered some unusual
hydrothermal activity on one of them
enceladus is saturn's sixth biggest moon
it has four tiger stripes close to one
of its poles
researchers have found that there is an
ocean underneath these stripes
water and ice erupt from that area so
now
we can't but wonder maybe there's life
out there
in the oceans on earth some forms of
life gather around similar hydrothermal
vents
they feed on the chemicals there same as
plants on the surface do with sunlight
and not only that some of the oldest
microbial life on our planet
feed on the same energy as the one
produced beneath the ocean's surface
on enceladus it could potentially mean
there's life developing there right now
of course it takes millions and millions
of years for even the simplest organisms
to appear
but hopefully scientists will need less
time to find more complex
forms of life there are millions of
exoplanets out there in space
and scientists have been searching for
those that could be potentially
habitable
exoplanets are planets orbiting a star
outside of our solar system
dwarf stars are similar less luminous
than the sun
they sometimes live for more than 10
billion years that's enough time for a
living organism to develop and evolve
into a more complex form
life might appear on the planets
orbiting such dwarf stars or
like with saturn on one of their moons
and here it is
gliese 876b that orbits the red dwarf
star gliese 876
this planet is mostly a mystery but
scientists assume this is a gas giant
that has no
solid surface they believe its
atmosphere doesn't have clouds
but there might be water in its liquid
form on the planet's surface
tea gardens b orbits a red dwarf that's
around 12 light years away from our
solar system
the planet's mass is just a bit higher
than that of earth
scientists think it may have a rocky
surface the planet needs around five
days to complete its orbit
it means that one year on t gardens b is
actually shorter than one week
on earth somewhere far far away
there's another potentially habitable
planet named kepler-1638b
okay to be more precise it's three
thousand light years away from earth
in the constellation cygnus this planet
is four times as heavy as earth and
twice as wide
it needs almost 260 days to complete one
orbit around its star
the gravity on this planet is stronger
than that on earth
it wouldn't be an easy feat to jump on
its surface
one more kepler coming along this time
it's kepler-62e
a planet that's more than one and a half
times the size of earth
scientists believe this one has a warm
humid and hospitable atmosphere with
cloudy skies
there are 1 200 light years between
earth and this planet
kepler-62e needs 122 days to orbit its
red dwarf star
its neighbor kepler-62f is another
potentially habitable zone
it's a world around 40 percent bigger
than earth
scientists think this planet might be
covered in water
the oceans on our planet are full of
interesting creatures and organisms of
all sizes so the chances are this planet
also hides some intriguing living beings
or at least it has the potential to
develop life
when we say habitable it doesn't mean
life definitely exists there
it just means there are conditions for
some forms of life to develop
lhs 1140b is a planet located in one of
the potentially habitable zones
unlike its gas companions it's solid and
quite rocky
the planet's radius is 60 larger than
that of earth and its mass is seven
times bigger it's one of the densest
planets found out there
since the planet has a big mass an
atmosphere there must be rather
thick plus gravity on its surface is
much stronger than here on earth
that's why you would likely have
problems just standing on that planet
hello and greetings from trappist-1 an
ultra-cool dwarf in the constellation
aquarius
it's around 39 light years away from us
seven earth-sized rocky planets are
orbiting in the star's habitable zone
all of them can potentially have some
water on their surfaces
the temperature on these planets is more
or less similar to that on earth
on the moon gravity is only 16 of what
we have on our home planet
that's why the astronauts could hardly
control their movements when they
visited our natural satellite but when
it comes to the gravity on trappist-1
planets
you would probably feel good and
comfortable there
and kepler once again this time it's
kepler-452b
it's a rocky planet 60 larger than earth
its parent star
is similar to our sun this planet has
actually spent around 6 billion years in
the habitable zone
while earth has been there for a mere
4.5 billion years
this planet needs 385 days to orbit
kepler-452
this star is around 20 percent brighter
than our sun but has the same
temperature
the whole system is very far from our
little oasis
it would take you 28 million years to
get there
and now how about koi 7711.01
it's another intriguing world 1 700
light years away from us
this planet is only 30 percent bigger
than earth
it gets almost the same amount of heat
as we received from our sun
sometime in the future people might
start colonizing the galaxy
they would be looking for new planets to
live on then we'd certainly have to make
really long trips and maybe one day we'd
reach proxima centauri it's a nearby
star that has a couple of planets we
could potentially inhabit
like proxima centauri b it's around four
light years away from earth
and it doesn't sound that far at first
but it actually is
it would take about 6 300 years to
travel there
if we use the technologies that are
available these days
it would mean many many generations to
make a trip like that
and it would take even longer to finally
inhabit that new world
people would be born and raised on
spaceships they would live their lives
there without ever seeing either earth
or the planet they're heading to instead
of trees
mountains and rivers there would be only
the dark nothingness of faraway galaxies
spreading in front of them
they would never be able to wander
unknown streets
breathe in the fresh air feel the wind
the only place for them to travel to
would be another part of the ship
certainly such a journey wouldn't be
simple
but it would pay off if people manage to
build some more beautiful worlds
like the one we have here on earth is
that even possible
time will tell